Add Create Repo Documentation (#2443)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/remote-repositories/create-remote-repository.md

---
linktitle: Remote Repositories
title: Create Your Remote Repository
description: Learn how to use remote repository templates in Open 3D Engine (O3DE) to package and share your project remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms.
---
In this tutorial you will build upon the foundation of O3DE and use the remote repository template to manage and distribute projects effortlessly. You will learn how to package and share your projects remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms, promoting collaboration and accelerating project development.

Show a list Open 3D Engine (O3DE) commands.
```
o3de.bat --help
```

> **NOTE:** All engine commands have their abbreviations. Use the `--help` menu for list of details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
All engine commands have their abbreviations. Use the `--help` menu for list of details.
{{< /note >}}
```

---
linktitle: Remote Repositories
title: Create Your Remote Repository
description: Learn how to use remote repository templates in Open 3D Engine (O3DE) to package and share your project remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms.
---

> In this tutorial you will build upon the foundation of O3DE and use the remote repository template to manage and distribute projects effortlessly. You will learn how to package and share your projects remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms, promoting collaboration and accelerating project development.

Reviewer 2: Define an acronym with its _first_ use:
```suggestion
In this tutorial you will build upon the foundation of Open 3D Engine (O3DE) and use the remote repository template to manage and distribute projects effortlessly. You will learn how to package and share your projects remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms, promoting collaboration and accelerating project development.
```

> Show a list Open 3D Engine (O3DE) commands.

Reviewer 2: This sentence needs an introduction.
```suggestion
In this tutorial you will use the O3DE CLI tool from a command prompt. You can list all O3DE commands and get help on a specific command using the `--help` option:
```

```

> o3de.bat --help

Reviewer 2: Show the directory that the O3DE tool is in. I'd also recommend showing an example of getting help for a specific command:
```suggestion
cd <o3de-engine-directory>/scripts
o3de.bat --help
o3de.bat create-gem --help
```

```
{{< note >}}

> All engine commands have their abbreviations. Use the `--help` menu for list of details.

Reviewer 2: Help doesn't show any abbreviations for commands, but it does show abbreviations for command options:
```suggestion
All `o3de` command options have abbreviations for convenience. Use the `--help` option with a command for details.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Create a repository
Create a new repository for your remote project and clone this repo to your local machine.
This version control repository link is where you upload your project `repo-uri`.

Here is an example of a Github repo URI:

```
"https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"
```

## Create a remote repository `repo.json` configuration file
Navigate to scripts folder from the root of your **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**.
```

> cd scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cd <o3de-engine-directory>/scripts
```

## Testing your remote repo locally
You can test your remote repo locally before uploading to your remote repository to make sure your remote repo works as expected by using a local file path.

You can test locally be creating another remote repository and Gem using the steps above and add the Gem to your new remote repository.  Next, create a release archive for the new Gem using a local path for the `download prefix`:
```cmd
o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\local-repo\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\local-repo\Gems\MyLocalGem" --release-archive-path "C:\local-repo\Gems" --download-prefix "C:\local-repo\Gems"
```

After performing the above steps you should be able to add the new remote repository using the local path `file://c/local-repo` and then be able to download `MyLocalGem` from the `Gems` tab in the Project Manager.

#### Use Python to host a `local server` for testing

> 1. Start a local Python server from the same folder that contains the `repo.json` file.

Reviewer 2: Update the wording in this step to describe what the user is actually going to do in the step. If you want to give an overview of what these steps will be doing, then put that in a sentence before the first numbered step. For example, you could have a sentence right before step 1 that says: "Start a local Python server in your local repo folder."
```suggestion
1. Open a command window and change to the local repo folder that contains the `repo.json` file.
```

---
linktitle: Remote Repositories
title: Create Your Remote Repository
description: Learn how to use remote repository templates in Open 3D Engine (O3DE) to package and share your project remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms.
---
In this tutorial you will build upon the foundation of O3DE and use the remote repository template to manage and distribute projects effortlessly. You will learn how to package and share your projects remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms, promoting collaboration and accelerating project development.

Show a list Open 3D Engine (O3DE) commands.
```
o3de.bat --help
```
**NOTE:** All engine commands have their abbreviations. Use the `--help` menu for list of details.

## Create a repository

> Create a new repository for your **Remote project** and clone this repo to your local machine.

Reviewer 3: It seems odd to capitalize the R in remote project, I recommend using lower case.

```suggestion
Create a new repository for your remote project and clone this repo to your local machine.
```

This version control repository link is where you upload your project `repo-uri`.

Here is an example of a Github repo uri:

```
"https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"
```

> ## Create Remote Repository Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Create a remote repository `repo.json` configuration file
```

Navigate to scripts folder from the root of your **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**.
```
cd scripts
```
To create a remote repository configuration, you will need to provide the following information:

> - `repo-path` - the local path of your remote project. This is where you cloned your repo.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `repo-path` - the local path of your remote project, this is where you cloned your repo.
```

- `repo-uri` - the URI of your repo.

{{< tabs name="O3DE CLI command" >}}
{{% tab name="Windows" %}}
```cmd

> o3de.bat create-repo --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
o3de.bat create-repo --repo-path "C:\remote-repo" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteRepoName>.git"
```

```

> **NOTE:** Use ./o3de.bat if you are using powershell

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} Use ./o3de.bat if you are using powershell.{{< /note >}}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Linux" %}}
```

> ./o3de.sh create-repo --repo-path "~/<RemoteProjectName>" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
./o3de.sh create-repo --repo-path "~/remote-repo" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteRepoName>.git"
```

```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The `create-repo` command performs the following actions:

> 1. Creates a directory with the remote project name specified in the `repo-path`, and creates a `repo.json` file in the root of that directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Creates a directory with the remote repository name specified in the `repo-path`, and creates a `repo.json` file in the root of that directory.
```

> 2. Creates three folders in your project folder: Gems, Projects, and Templates. Make sure to place all associated objects in their correct folder type to avoid later confusion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Creates three folders in your remote repository folder: Gems, Projects, and Templates. Make sure to place all associated objects in their correct folder type to avoid confusion later.
```

> This will be what you remote project folder will look like after this step:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is what your remote repository folder will look like after this step:
```

{{<image-width src="/images/learning-guide/tutorials/remote-repositories/init.png" width="300">}}

> - For example: Gems should go inside Gems folder, projects should be placed into Projects folder, and project templates should go inside Templates folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For example: Gems should go inside the Gems folder, projects should be placed into the Projects folder, and project templates should go inside the Templates folder.
```

{{< note >}}
Remember to push your local changes to your remote version control repository.
{{< /note >}}

> ## (Optional) Create a Gem Release Archive for your project
> To test your remote repo creation, you can create a Gem of your own and make it public to allow other users to download
> 
> To create a Gem, you will need to provide the following information:
> 
> Skip this step if you already have a gem in your remote repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## (Optional) Create a gem release archive to add to your remote repository
To test your remote repo creation, you can create a Gem of your own and make it public to allow other users to download it. Skip this step if you already have a gem in your remote repository.

To create a Gem, you will need to provide the following information:
```

> - `gem-path`: The path to the directory where you would want your Gem to be stored (Remember to place your Gem in the Gems folder)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `gem-path`: The path to the directory where you would want your Gem to be stored (We recommend you choose a path inside the remote repository's Gems folder)
```

- `gem-name`: Optional parameter that specifies a name for your Gem
   
```

> o3de.bat create-gem --gem-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems\MyGem" --gem-name "SuperGem"

Reviewer 3: Normally the gem name matches the name of the folder it is in.
```suggestion
o3de.bat create-gem --gem-path "C:\remote-repo\Gems\MyGem" --gem-name "MyGem"
```

```

The `create-gem` command performs the following actions:

> 1. Create a Gem for your project, specifying a path and name for the new Gem. If you don't specify a name, O3DE will use the trailing directory name from the `gem-path`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Creates a Gem with the provided name at the specified path. If you didn't specify a name, O3DE will use the trailing directory name from the `gem-path`.
```

3. Registers your Gem to the O3DE engine. You can now find your new Gem with the Gem name under the Gems tab in Project Manager.

> Next, use the `edit-repo-properties` command to add your Gem to your project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, use the `edit-repo-properties` command to add your Gem to your remote repository.
```

> **Add your gem to your remote project**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Add your gem to your remote repository**
```

To add a Gem to your project, you will need to provide the following information:
- `--repo-path`: The path to your repo.json file
- `--add-gem`: The path to the directory of your Gem

    ```

>     o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems\MyGem"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\remote-repo\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\remote-repo\Gems\MyGem"
```

    ```

>     The `edit-repo-properties` command will register your gem with your remote project's repo.json file under the gems_data field

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The `edit-repo-properties` command will register your gem with your remote repository's `repo.json` file under the `gems_data` field.
```

In the next step, you will create a downloadable release archive for your Gem in order to share it with the world. Make sure you push all your changes before moving to the next step.

> ### Create Release Archive

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Create a release archive for your gem
```

The primary purpose of a _release archive_ is to provide a well-defined and stable version of the software that can be easily shared, installed, and distributed.

In O3DE we provide the option for users to create a release archive with .zip format.

> For security, O3DE uses `sha-256` to hash files before creating the release archive. Every time you make a change to your Gem, including the repo.json file, the `sha-256` hash will change.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For security, O3DE uses `sha-256` to hash files before creating the release archive. Every time you make a change to your Gem, including the `repo.json` file, the `sha-256` hash will change.
```

**Here is a Github example of how to create a release archive.**

> - To create a release archive `download prefix`, make sure you follow this pattern for any Github repositories:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `o3de.bat` tool expects a `download prefix` which is the URI for the folder your archive will be available in.  For a release in a Github repository, the `download prefix` looks like this:
```

>     `https://github.com/YourGitAccount/RemoteProjectName/releases/download/YouReleaseTag`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    `https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteRepoName>/releases/download/<ReleaseTag>`
```

To create a release archive, you will need to provide the following information:

> - `--repo-path`: the absolute path to your remote project's repo.json file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `--repo-path`: the absolute path to your remote repository's `repo.json` file
```

- `--add-gem`: the path to the directory to where the actual gem you want to add is located

> - `--release-archive-path`: the path to where you want to place your .zip archive, it should be placed in the Gems folder of your remote project folder 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `--release-archive-path`: the path to where you want to place your .zip archive, we recommend placing it in the Gems folder inside your remote repository folder. 
```

- `--download-prefix`: the URI where your gem archive can be download from, You must know where your zip will be avaliable to download before you actually create the release archive zip.

{{< note >}}
`--release-archive-path` command can only be used after you call the `--add-gem` command.See below example:
{{< /note >}}

```

> o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems\MyGem" --release-archive-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems" --download-prefix "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>/releases/download/<YouReleaseTag>"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\remote-repo\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\remote-repo\Gems\MyGem" --release-archive-path "C:\remote-repo\Gems" --download-prefix "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteRepoName>/releases/download/<ReleaseTag>"
```

```

1. Here is an example of where you should upload your release to Github (you can find this on your version control url):

    {{<image-width src="/images/learning-guide/tutorials/remote-repositories/add_release.png" width="500">}}

2. Here is where you would be setting your release tag (make sure this tag is the same as the last parameter you passed for the `--download-prefix` arg):

    {{<image-width src="/images/learning-guide/tutorials/remote-repositories/release_tag.png" width="500">}}

{{< important >}}

> Make sure you know where your release will be available after uploading it to GitHub. Once uploaded, you won't be able to change the `download_source_uri` in your `repo.json` file. If you input the wrong download path, you will need to repeat this step and rezip the file and upload the release to GitHub again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure you know where your release will be available after uploading it to GitHub. Once uploaded, you won't be able to change the `download_source_uri` in your `repo.json` file. If you input the wrong download path, you will need to repeat this step and re-zip the file and upload the release to GitHub again.
```

{{< /important >}}

> After you upload your Gem to the version control website, other users will be able to download it in their O3DE engine. It will be available in the Project Manager. Users can navigate to Remote Sources and use your remote project URL to download associated Gems based on the download path you provided in this step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you upload your Gem to the version control website, other users that have added your remote repository will be able to download it using the Project Manager and `o3de` CLI. Users can navigate to Remote Sources and use your remote project URL to download associated Gems based on the download path you provided in this step.
```

> ## Testing Your Remote Repo locally

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Testing your remote repo locally
```

> You can test your remote repo locally before uploading to your remote repository to make sure your remote repo work as expected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can test your remote repo locally before uploading to your remote repository to make sure your remote repo works as expected.
```

> You can test your release archive within your local file path. Follow the above steps to create a repo and create a Gem:
> 
> To create a release archive, you will need to provide the following information:
> - `--download-prefix`: use you local path to where this zip would be stored 
> 
> ```
> ./o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\localtest\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\o3de_Projects\localtest\Gems\MylocalGem" --release-archive-path "C:\o3de_Projects\localtest\Gems" --download-prefix "C:\o3de_Projects\localtest\Gems"
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

You can test locally be creating another remote repository and Gem using the steps above and add the Gem to your new remote repository.  Next, create a release archive for the new Gem using a local path for the `download prefix`:
```cmd
o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\local-repo\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\local-repo\Gems\MyLocalGem" --release-archive-path "C:\local-repo\Gems" --download-prefix "C:\local-repo\Gems"
```
```

> After performing the above steps you are able to create a repo and a release archive and to be able to download from the project manager

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After performing the above steps you should be able to add the new remote repository using the local path `file://c/local-repo` and then be able to download `MyLocalGem` from the `Gems` tab in the Project Manager.
```

#### Use Python to host a `local server` for testing

> 1. Start local python server, navigate to the root of your `repo.json` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Start a local Python server from the same folder that contains the `repo.json` file.
```

    ```

>     cd RemoteProject

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    cd c:\remote-repo
```

    ``` 

> 2. Start a local python server on 8080.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Start a local python server on port 8080.
```

    ```
    python -m http.server 8080
    ```

3. Use this below format for your `--download-prefix`.
    ```
    http://localhost:8080/Gems
    ```

    Here is an example of where your download uri will be located:
    ```
    http://localhost:8080/Gems/camera-0.1.0-gem.zip
    ```

> 4. Open up the project manager and add a repo, when prompted use the URL for your local server which should be "http://localhost:8080/"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Open the Project Manager and add a remote repository from the Engine > Remote Sources page. When prompted, use the URL for your local server which should be "http://localhost:8080/"
```

---
linktitle: Remote Repositories
title: Create Your Remote Repository

> description: Learn how to use remote repository templates in Open 3D Engine (O3DE) to package and share your project remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion since we aren't _just_ using the repo template.

---
In this tutorial you will build upon the foundation of Open 3D Engine (O3DE) and use the remote repository template to manage and distribute projects effortlessly. You will learn how to package and share your projects remotely with GitHub or other version control platforms, promoting collaboration and accelerating project development.

> In this tutorial you will use the O3DE CLI tool from a command prompt. You can list all O3DE commands and get help on a specific command using the `--help` option:

Reviewer: spell out the first instance of an initialism.

    ```
    o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\remote-repo\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\remote-repo\Gems\MyGem"
    ```
    The `edit-repo-properties` command will register your gem with your remote repository's `repo.json` file under the `gems_data` field.

In the next step, you will create a downloadable release archive for your Gem in order to share it with the world. Make sure you push all your changes before moving to the next step.

### Create a release archive for your gem
The primary purpose of a _release archive_ is to provide a well-defined and stable version of the software that can be easily shared, installed, and distributed.

In O3DE we provide the option for users to create a release archive with .zip format.

For security, O3DE uses `sha-256` to hash files before creating the release archive. Every time you make a change to your Gem, including the `repo.json` file, the `sha-256` hash will change.

**Here is a Github example of how to create a release archive.**

- The `o3de.bat` tool expects a `download prefix` which is the URI for the folder your archive will be available in.  For a release in a Github repository, the `download prefix` looks like this:

>     `https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteRepoName>/releases/download/<ReleaseTag>`

Reviewer: +1 nice comment

To create a release archive, you will need to provide the following information:
- `--repo-path`: the absolute path to your remote repository's `repo.json` file
- `--add-gem`: the path to the directory to where the actual gem you want to add is located

> - `--release-archive-path`: the path to where you want to place your .zip archive, we recommend placing it in the Gems folder inside your remote repository folder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--release-archive-path`: the path to where you want to place your .zip archive; we recommend placing it in the Gems folder inside your remote repository folder.
```

> - `--download-prefix`: the URI where your gem archive can be download from, You must know where your zip will be avaliable to download before you actually create the release archive zip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--download-prefix`: the URI where your gem archive can be downloaded from. You must know where your zip will be available for download before you actually create the release archive zip.
```

{{< note >}}

> `--release-archive-path` command can only be used after you call the `--add-gem` command.See below example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--release-archive-path` command can only be used after you call the `--add-gem` command. See below example:
```

{{< /note >}}

```
o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\remote-repo\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\remote-repo\Gems\MyGem" --release-archive-path "C:\remote-repo\Gems" --download-prefix "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteRepoName>/releases/download/<ReleaseTag>"
```

1. Here is an example of where you should upload your release to Github (you can find this on your version control URI):

    {{<image-width src="/images/learning-guide/tutorials/remote-repositories/add_release.png" width="500">}}

2. Here is where you would be setting your release tag (make sure this tag is the same as the last parameter you passed for the `--download-prefix` arg):

    {{<image-width src="/images/learning-guide/tutorials/remote-repositories/release_tag.png" width="500">}}

{{< important >}}

> Make sure you know where your release will be available after uploading it to GitHub. Once uploaded, you won't be able to change the `download_source_uri` in your `repo.json` file. If you input the wrong download path, you will need to repeat this step and re-zip the file and upload the release to GitHub again.

Reviewer: +1 pro-tip!

{{< /important >}}

After you upload your Gem to the version control website, other users that have added your remote repository will be able to download it using the Project Manager and `o3de` CLI. Users can navigate to Remote Sources and use your remote project URL to download associated Gems based on the download path you provided in this step.

## Testing your remote repo locally
You can test your remote repo locally before uploading to your remote repository to make sure your remote repo works as expected by using a local file path.

> You can test locally be creating another remote repository and Gem using the steps above and add the Gem to your new remote repository.  Next, create a release archive for the new Gem using a local path for the `download prefix`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test locally by creating another remote repository and Gem using the steps above and add the Gem to your new remote repository. Next, create a release archive for the new Gem using a local path for the `download prefix`:
```

---
linktitle: Your First Remote Repository
title: Your First Remote Repository
description: Welcome to the Create Remote Repository! Building upon the foundation of Open 3D Engine (O3DE), we have created a new remote repo template, a comprehensive solution for managing and distributing projects effortlessly. You can seamlessly create, package, and share your projects remotely with Github or other version control platforms, promoting collaboration and accelerating project development.

---
## Add a Remote Repository with the O3DE Command Line Tool
---

> Navigate to scripts folder from the root of your **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**.<br>

Reviewer 3: Please remove all the HTML tags and use markdown instead https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/

```

> cd scripts

Reviewer 2: Move these 2 steps to the "Create Remote Repository Configuration" section.

```
Show a list Open 3D Engine (O3DE) commands.
```

> cd scripts -help

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
o3de.bat --help
```

```
<strong>Note:</strong> All engine commands have their abbreviations. Use the `-help` menu for list of details.

<br>

## Start With A Github Repository Or Other Version Control Systems
---
<ul>

Create a new repository for your **Remote project** and clone this repo to your local 
machine.
<br>
This version control repository link is where you upload your project (`repo-uri`).<br>
Here is an example of a Github repo uri:

```
"https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"
```
</ul>
<br>

## Create Remote Repository Configuration
---
Provide the local path on your machine of your remote project `repo-path` this is where you cloned you online version control repo.<br>
Note: `--repo-path` and `--repo-uri` are required to create remote repo. 
<br>

> Use ./o3de.bat if you are using powershell <br>
> ```
> o3de.bat create-repo --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"
> ```

Reviewer 3: Please use tabs to provide Windows and Linux specific instructions 
```suggestion
{{< tabs name="O3DE CLI command" >}}
{{% tab name="Windows" %}}

```cmd
o3de.bat create-repo --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"
```
NOTE: Use ./o3de.bat if you are using powershell <br>

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Linux" %}}

```shell
./o3de.sh create-repo --repo-path "~/<RemoteProjectName>" --repo-uri "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>.git"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> <ul>
> 
> 1. A directory with your specified remote project name will appear along with a `repo.json` file in the root of the directory
> <br>
> 
> 2. Three folders (Gems/Projects/Templates) will automatically be created in your project folder after you use `--create-repo CLI command`. Make sure to place all asscocated objects in their correct folder type to avoid later confusion.<br> 
> 
> <ul><li>For example: Gems should go inside Gems folder, projects should be placed into Projects folder, and project templates should go inside Templates folder.</ul><br>
> Note: Remember to push your local changes to your version control remote repository
> </ul>

Reviewer 3: There are a number of HTML elements in here that should not be needed, because this is markdown
```suggestion
1. A directory with your specified remote project name will appear along with a `repo.json` file in the root of the directory
2. Three folders (Gems/Projects/Templates) will automatically be created in your project folder after you use `--create-repo CLI command`. Make sure to place all asscocated objects in their correct folder type to avoid later confusion.

For example: Gems should go inside Gems folder, projects should be placed into Projects folder, and project templates should go inside Templates folder.
Note: Remember to push your local changes to your version control remote repository
```

<ul> 
For example: Add your gem to your project when working locally:
<ul>

```
o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems\MyGem"
```

</ul>
</ul>
<br>

However, pushing your changes to your version control repository would not allow other user to use your gem, move on to the next step if you want to create a downloadable `release archive` for your gem to be shared with the world. Make sure  you push all your changes before moving to the next step to share your gem with the world.
</ul>
</ul>

<br>

## Create Release Archive
---
The primary purpose of a **Release archive** is to provide a well-defined and stable version of the software that can be easily shared, installed, and distributed.<br> 

In O3DE we provide the option for users to create a release archive with .zip format.<br>

Due to user safty, we use `sha-256` to hash our files before creating the release archive. Thus, you won't be able to modify your `repo.json` file once your archive is created. Every time you make a change to your gem, including the repo.json file, the `sha-256` hash will change.<br>

<ul>

> Note: You must know where your zip will be created online **download path** before you actually create the release archive zip.</ul>

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need this note. You can explain this requirement when you describe the parameters to use with the edit-repo-properties command.

<br>
<ul>

> ### Add A Gem To Your Remote Repository And Create A Release Archive

Reviewer 2: This header seems redundant. I think you can remove it.

---
Here is a Github example of how to create a release archive. <br><br>
Note: `--release-archive-path` command can only be used after you call the `--add-gem` command.<br> See below example:

<ul>

<li>

To create a release archive `download prefix`, make sure you follow this pattern for any Github repositories:<br>
<ul>

>  `https://github.com/YourGitAccount/RemoteProjectName/releases/download/YouReleaseTag`<br>

Reviewer 2: Use the same format here as shown earlier for O3DE commands.

```
o3de.bat edit-repo-properties --repo-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\repo.json" --add-gem "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems\MyGem" --release-archive-path "C:\o3de_Projects\<RemoteProjectName>\Gems" --download-prefix "https://github.com/<YourGitAccount>/<RemoteProjectName>/releases/download/<YouReleaseTag>"
```
<ul>

 Provide the following required information:
 <li> --repo-path: the absolute path to your remote project's repo.json file
 <li> --add-gem: the path to the directory to where the actual gem you want to add is located
 <li> --release-archive-path: the path to where you want to place your .zip archive, it should be placed in the Gems folder of your remote project folder
 <li> --download-prefix: the URI where your gem archive can be download from

<br>
1. Here is an example of where you should upload your release to Github (you can find this on your version control url):

> ![tag](Media/add_release.png)

Reviewer 2: Use the information in the following page to learn how to add images: https://www.docs.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/style-guide/media/

2. Here is where you would be setting your release tag (make sure this tag is the same as the last parameter you passed for the `--download-prefix` arg)

![tag](Media/release_tag.png)

 </ul>
</ul>

> WARNING: Make sure you know where your release will be available after uploading it to GitHub. Once uploaded, you won't be able to change the `download_source_uri` in your `repo.json` file. If you input the wrong download path, you will need to repeat this step and rezip the file and upload the release to Github again.

Reviewer 2: Use the `important` shortcode tag.
```suggestion
{{< important >}}
Make sure you know where your release will be available after uploading it to GitHub. Once uploaded, you won't be able to change the `download_source_uri` in your `repo.json` file. If you input the wrong download path, you will need to repeat this step and rezip the file and upload the release to GitHub again.
{{< /important >}}
```

</ul>

> After you upload your gem to the version control website, other users will be able to download it in their O3DE engine. It will be available in the Project Manager. Users can navigate to Remote Sources and use your remote project url to download associated gems based on the download path you provided in this step.<br><br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you upload your Gem to the version control website, other users will be able to download it in their O3DE engine. It will be available in the Project Manager. Users can navigate to Remote Sources and use your remote project URL to download associated Gems based on the download path you provided in this step.
```

</ul>

## Testing Your Remote Repo locally
---

> You can test your remote repo locally before uploading to your remote repository to make sure your remote repo work as expected.

Reviewer 2: Capitalize programming languages such as "Python".

> Use python to host a `local server` for testing

Reviewer 3: I think we should show how to test the remote repo without using a local server first.    All that should be necessary is to add the repo with `file://c/path/to/repo` if on windows - but this needs testing, there may be issues.
